README.md, before:

# Hyplex

**Hy**personic **pl**asma **ex**pansion code (hyplex) is a 2D particle-in-cell (PIC) code for simulation of the expansion of a plasma plume generated by a electric thrusters. The code uses a rectangular domain, electrostatic fields, and the Monte-Carlo collisions (MCC) algorithm. 

## Description of the problem

(Include picture and description)


## Building

The code uses C++17. Before using the code it is necessary to install:

- Open MPI - https://www.open-mpi.org/
- HYPRE - https://github.com/hypre-space/hypre
- yaml-cpp - https://github.com/jbeder/yaml-cpp

Make sure to place the files of HYPRE and yaml-cpp in `/lib/`.  After building MPI and HYPRE it is necessary to modify the `Makefile` to include the version of HYPRE, this is done modifying the variable `hypre_dir`  to the folder name that contains the library, e.g. , `hypre-2.16.0`. Finally, to build the code, just execute the command `make`. 

Compile with the `-D VERBOSE` flag in the variable `CXXFLAGS` to print more information during runtime.

## To do

- Write a folder system with metadata for the output. The output folder name should look like `hy_20200331_<job_name>.output`. The metadata should be a `.yaml` file and contain the code version, start, end and duration times of the run, `job_name` and how many steps from the total were executed. The output folder should also contain the `config.yaml` file used for that run.
- Write `python` script that reads folders recursively and generates a table (database) with all runs. This table should contain the metadata, configuration data, the group (relative path) and the output files contained. Use pandas?
- Using the mentioned script, unify the place for storing simulation output. Use groups (folders) to separate runs used for diffferent purposes.
- Also based on the last script, create a genereric class to explore the data through the database and with exdir. Use pandas?
- Find solution to run remotely painlessly.
- Write `python` script to automatically generate a list of config files from an original file, variating certain parameters.

### Backlog:

- Solving in cylindrical coordinates
- Do modular particle boundaries

Commit message:

Adding script to generate and run config files

README.md, after:

# Hyplex

**Hy**personic **pl**asma **ex**pansion code (hyplex) is a 2D particle-in-cell (PIC) code for simulation of the expansion of a plasma plume generated by a electric thrusters. The code uses a rectangular domain, electrostatic fields, and the Monte-Carlo collisions (MCC) algorithm. 

## Description of the problem

(Include picture and description)


## Building

The code uses C++17. Before using the code it is necessary to install:

- Open MPI - https://www.open-mpi.org/
- HYPRE - https://github.com/hypre-space/hypre
- yaml-cpp - https://github.com/jbeder/yaml-cpp

Make sure to place the files of HYPRE and yaml-cpp in `/lib/`.  After building MPI and HYPRE it is necessary to modify the `Makefile` to include the version of HYPRE, this is done modifying the variable `hypre_dir`  to the folder name that contains the library, e.g. , `hypre-2.16.0`. Finally, to build the code, just execute the command `make`. 

Compile with the `-D VERBOSE` flag in the variable `CXXFLAGS` to print more information during runtime.

## To do

- Write `python` script that reads folders recursively and generates a table (database) with all runs. This table should contain the metadata, configuration data, the group (relative path) and the output files contained. Use pandas?
- Using the mentioned script, unify the place for storing simulation output. Use groups (folders) to separate runs used for different purposes.
- Also based on the last script, create a generic class to explore the data through the database and with exdir. Use pandas?
- Find solution to run remotely painlessly.
- Write method to calculate distribution function from a species

### Backlog:

- Solving in cylindrical coordinates
- Do modular particle boundaries
